docs/tutorials/connecting-to-testnet.md, before:

```{eval-rst}
.. tutorials-connect-to-network:
```

# Connect to a network

The purpose of this tutorial is to walk through the steps necessary to access the network.

## Overview

Platform services are provided via a combination of HTTP and gRPC connections to DAPI, and some connections to an Insight API. Although one could interact with DAPI by connecting to these directly, or by using [DAPI-client](https://github.com/dashpay/platform/tree/master/packages/js-dapi-client), the easiest approach is to use the [JavaScript Dash SDK](https://github.com/dashpay/platform/tree/master/packages/js-dash-sdk).

## Prerequisites

- An installation of [NodeJS v20 or higher](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

## Connect via Dash SDK

### 1. Install the Dash SDK

The JavaScript SDK package is available from npmjs.com and can be installed by running `npm install dash` from the command line:

```shell
npm install dash
```

### 2. Connect to Dash Platform

:::{tip}
The JavaScript Dash SDK connects to testnet by default. Mainnet can only be accessed by [connecting via address](#connect-via-address).
:::

Create a file named `dashConnect.js` with the following contents. Then run it by typing `node dashConnect.js` from the command line:

```javascript dashConnect.js
const Dash = require('dash');

const client = new Dash.Client({ network: 'testnet' });

async function connect() {
  return await client.getDAPIClient().core.getBestBlockHash();
}

connect()
  .then((d) => console.log('Connected. Best block hash:\n', d))
  .catch((e) => console.error('Something went wrong:\n', e))
  .finally(() => client.disconnect());
```

Once this returns successfully, you're ready to begin developing! See the [Quickstart](../tutorials/introduction.md#quickstart) for recommended next steps. For details on all SDK options and methods, please refer to the [SDK documentation](../sdk-js/overview.md).

## Connect to a Devnet

The SDK also supports connecting to development networks (devnets). Since devnets can be created by anyone, the client library will be unaware of them unless connection information is provided using one of the options described below.

### Connect via Seed

Using a seed node is the preferred method in most cases. The client uses the provided seed node to a retrieve a list of available masternodes on the network so requests can be spread across the entire network.

```javascript
const Dash = require('dash');

const client = new Dash.Client({
  seeds: [{
    host: 'seed-1.testnet.networks.dash.org:1443',
  }],
});

async function connect() {
  return await client.getDAPIClient().core.getBestBlockHash();
}

connect()
  .then((d) => console.log('Connected. Best block hash:\n', d))
  .catch((e) => console.error('Something went wrong:\n', e))
  .finally(() => client.disconnect());
```

### Connect via Address

Custom addresses may be directly specified via `dapiAddresses` in cases where it is beneficial to know exactly what node(s) are being accessed (e.g. debugging, local development, etc.).

```javascript
const Dash = require('dash');

const client = new Dash.Client({
  dapiAddresses: [
    '127.0.0.1:3000:3010',
    '127.0.0.2:3000:3010',
  ],
});

async function connect() {
  return await client.getDAPIClient().core.getBestBlockHash();
}

connect()
  .then((d) => console.log('Connected. Best block hash:\n', d))
  .catch((e) => console.error('Something went wrong:\n', e))
  .finally(() => client.disconnect());
```

## Connect Directly to DAPI (Optional)

:::{attention}
Normally, the Dash SDK, dapi-client, or another library should be used to interact with DAPI. Connecting directly may be helpful for debugging in some cases, but generally is not required.
:::

The example below demonstrates retrieving the hash of the best block hash directly from a DAPI node via command line and several languages:

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Curl
```shell
curl --request POST \
  --url https://seed-1.testnet.networks.dash.org:1443/ \
  --header 'content-type: application/json' \
  --data '{"method":"getBlockHash","id":1,"jsonrpc":"2.0","params":{"height": 100 }}'
```
:::

:::{tab-item} Python
```python
import requests

url = "https://seed-1.testnet.networks.dash.org:1443/"

payload = "{\"method\":\"getBlockHash\",\"id\":1,\"jsonrpc\":\"2.0\",\"params\":{\"height\":100}}"
headers = {'content-type': 'application/json'}

response = requests.request("POST", url, data=payload, headers=headers)

print(response.text)
```
:::

:::{tab-item} Ruby
```ruby
require 'uri'
require 'net/http'

url = URI("https://seed-1.testnet.networks.dash.org:1443/")

http = Net::HTTP.new(url.host, url.port)

request = Net::HTTP::Post.new(url)
request["content-type"] = 'application/json'
request.body = "{\"method\":\"getBlockHash\",\"id\":1,\"jsonrpc\":\"2.0\",\"params\":{\"height\":100}}"

response = http.request(request)
puts response.read_body
```
:::
::::

Commit message:

docs: update tutorials for v1.4 (#82)
* docs: update tutorials to continue connecting to testnet

Platform v1.4 SDK will connect to mainnet by default instead of testnet so the network option has been set to continue using testnet

* docs: add credit withdraw tutorial

* chore: rename file and add tutorial to sidebar

* chore: small updates

docs/tutorials/connecting-to-testnet.md, after:

```{eval-rst}
.. tutorials-connect-to-network:
```

# Connect to a network

The purpose of this tutorial is to walk through the steps necessary to access the network.

## Overview

Platform services are provided via a combination of HTTP and gRPC connections to DAPI, and some connections to an Insight API. Although one could interact with DAPI by connecting to these directly, or by using [DAPI-client](https://github.com/dashpay/platform/tree/master/packages/js-dapi-client), the easiest approach is to use the [JavaScript Dash SDK](https://github.com/dashpay/platform/tree/master/packages/js-dash-sdk).

## Prerequisites

- An installation of [NodeJS v20 or higher](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

## Connect via Dash SDK

### 1. Install the Dash SDK

The JavaScript SDK package is available from npmjs.com and can be installed by running `npm install dash` from the command line:

```shell
npm install dash
```

### 2. Connect to Dash Platform

:::{tip}
The JavaScript Dash SDK connects to mainnet by default. To connect to other networks,
set the `network` option when instantiating the client as shown in the following example.
:::

Create a file named `dashConnect.js` with the following contents. Then run it by typing `node dashConnect.js` from the command line:

```javascript dashConnect.js
const Dash = require('dash');

const client = new Dash.Client({ network: 'testnet' });

async function connect() {
  return await client.getDAPIClient().core.getBestBlockHash();
}

connect()
  .then((d) => console.log('Connected. Best block hash:\n', d))
  .catch((e) => console.error('Something went wrong:\n', e))
  .finally(() => client.disconnect());
```

Once this returns successfully, you're ready to begin developing! See the [Quickstart](../tutorials/introduction.md#quickstart) for recommended next steps. For details on all SDK options and methods, please refer to the [SDK documentation](../sdk-js/overview.md).

## Connect to a Devnet

The SDK also supports connecting to development networks (devnets). Since devnets can be created by anyone, the client library will be unaware of them unless connection information is provided using one of the options described below.

### Connect via Seed

Using a seed node is the preferred method in most cases. The client uses the provided seed node to a retrieve a list of available masternodes on the network so requests can be spread across the entire network.

```javascript
const Dash = require('dash');

const client = new Dash.Client({
  seeds: [{
    host: 'seed-1.testnet.networks.dash.org:1443',
  }],
});

async function connect() {
  return await client.getDAPIClient().core.getBestBlockHash();
}

connect()
  .then((d) => console.log('Connected. Best block hash:\n', d))
  .catch((e) => console.error('Something went wrong:\n', e))
  .finally(() => client.disconnect());
```

### Connect via Address

Custom addresses may be directly specified via `dapiAddresses` in cases where it is beneficial to know exactly what node(s) are being accessed (e.g. debugging, local development, etc.).

```javascript
const Dash = require('dash');

const client = new Dash.Client({
  dapiAddresses: [
    '127.0.0.1:3000:3010',
    '127.0.0.2:3000:3010',
  ],
});

async function connect() {
  return await client.getDAPIClient().core.getBestBlockHash();
}

connect()
  .then((d) => console.log('Connected. Best block hash:\n', d))
  .catch((e) => console.error('Something went wrong:\n', e))
  .finally(() => client.disconnect());
```

## Connect Directly to DAPI (Optional)

:::{attention}
Normally, the Dash SDK, dapi-client, or another library should be used to interact with DAPI. Connecting directly may be helpful for debugging in some cases, but generally is not required.
:::

The example below demonstrates retrieving the hash of the best block hash directly from a DAPI node via command line and several languages:

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Curl
```shell
curl --request POST \
  --url https://seed-1.testnet.networks.dash.org:1443/ \
  --header 'content-type: application/json' \
  --data '{"method":"getBlockHash","id":1,"jsonrpc":"2.0","params":{"height": 100 }}'
```
:::

:::{tab-item} Python
```python
import requests

url = "https://seed-1.testnet.networks.dash.org:1443/"

payload = "{\"method\":\"getBlockHash\",\"id\":1,\"jsonrpc\":\"2.0\",\"params\":{\"height\":100}}"
headers = {'content-type': 'application/json'}

response = requests.request("POST", url, data=payload, headers=headers)

print(response.text)
```
:::

:::{tab-item} Ruby
```ruby
require 'uri'
require 'net/http'

url = URI("https://seed-1.testnet.networks.dash.org:1443/")

http = Net::HTTP.new(url.host, url.port)

request = Net::HTTP::Post.new(url)
request["content-type"] = 'application/json'
request.body = "{\"method\":\"getBlockHash\",\"id\":1,\"jsonrpc\":\"2.0\",\"params\":{\"height\":100}}"

response = http.request(request)
puts response.read_body
```
:::
::::
